feat: Deprecate tools DOCS-609 (#1907)
codacy/docs: docs/release-notes/cloud/cloud-2023-10-24-csslint-jshint-fauxpas-tailor-tslint-deprecation.md

---
rss_title: Codacy release notes RSS feed
rss_href: /feed_rss_created.xml
---

# Deprecation of CSSLint, JSHint, Faux Pas, Tailor, TSLint October 24, 2023<!-- DOCS-609 update with correct launch date -->

On October 24th 2023<!-- DOCS-609 update with correct launch date --> we deprecated the following tools: **CSSLint**, **Faux Pas**, **JSHint**, **Tailor**, and **TSLint**.

> These tools have become deprecated or stopped being updated by their maintainers and started providing a bad experience for Codacy users either by reporting false positives or causing other unexpected issues.

Reviewer: Not sure if it should be "proving to" instead? 🤔 

```suggestion
These tools have become deprecated or stopped being updated by their maintainers and started providing a bad experience to Codacy users either by reporting false positives or causing other unexpected issues.
```

We've been working on alternatives for each deprecated tool. See [what to do if you are using one of the deprecated tools](#if-you-are-using-one-of-these-tools).

## Removal of CSSLint and TSLint January 1, 2024

On January 1st, 2024 we'll be removing the following tools from Codacy: **CSSLint** and **TSLint**.

The remaining deprecated tools (Faux Pas, JSHint, and Tailor) will be removed later. You can follow the [Codacy release notes](https://docs.codacy.com/release-notes/) for further updates.

## If you are using one of these tools

> To continue analyzing any affected repositories, enable the following tools in your [organization coding standards](../../organizations/using-coding-standards.md) (recommended) or on the [code patterns page](../../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md) of affected repositories, based on the deprecated tool you are using:

Reviewer: Tweak for clarity.
Feel free to ignore it if you consider this tweak brings no clarity to the sentence. 😅 

```suggestion
To continue analyzing your repositories, enable the replacement tool for the corresponding deprecated tool listed below in your [organization coding standards](../../organizations/using-coding-standards.md) (recommended) or on the [code patterns page](../../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md) of each affected repositories:
```

> | Deprecated tool | Replacement tool |

Reviewer: What's the behaviour for new repositories? Is there anything worth mentioning? (as we did [for Trivy](https://docs.codacy.com/release-notes/cloud/cloud-2023-10-13-bundler-audit-deprecation/#if-you-are-using-bundler-audit))

Author: @stefanvacareanu7 @DMarinhoCodacy 

Any caveats worth mentioning here? For Trivy, we mentioned that it's on for default on new repos.

Reviewer 2: The deprecated tools are disabled by default but can be enabled and will work as before.

The suggested cloud tools are enabled by default. Clang Tidy is a client-side tool that cannot be enabled by default.
